The repository contains the files relating to expressing and analysing a simple model of port operations using Bigraphs. The subdirectories suffixed with 'small' and 'large' are the same models initialised with a different set of vehicles. The former is initialised with $2$ cars and $2$ trucks whereas the latter with $6$ cars and $3$ trucks. For both these models, the state-space of the bigraph evolves using rules with weights (stochastic rates) implying the underlying Bigraphical Reactive System (BRS) is stochastic in nature. 

We use BigraphER, a state-of-the-art toolset developed to model, analyse and visualise bigraphs as our modeling tool. BigraphER comes with the feature to export the state-space as a Continuous-Time Markov Chain (CTMC) for an SBRS (Stochastic Bigraphical Reactive System) compatible with PRISM, another state-of-the-art tool to reason over Markovian models. We then express a set of queries to insight over our model in logics compatible with PRISM and run experiments and generate plots. The results have been discussed in the paper.

Under each subdirectory, the bigraph models expressed in BigraphER can be found under `bigraphs_models` subdirectory, the generated CTMC transitions and labels files using Bigrapher can be found inside the `prism_files` subdirectory. The various bigraph models capture various scenarios. There are bigraphs in which the port has $2$ lanes, while other has $3$ lines (the file names capture the number of lanes considered). The files are suffixed with `generic ` or 3-letter combinations like `CCT`, etc. By `generic`, such models do NOT have a pre-assigned lane allocations on which sort of vehicles (cars/trucks) they allow and the model has rules which allocates them. The ones with the 3-letter combinations have pre-assigned lane allocations, like for `CCT`, we have assigned two of the lanes to cars and one for trucks, and similarly for others.

The results of all the experiments run on PRISM, exported as csv files can be found under the `analysis` subdirectory. Note that the file-names signify the model on which the query was run and the number $i$ at the suffix refers to the $i$-th query from the `queries` file under the `scripts` subdirectory (which lists all the queries we ran on the model). The plots generated from all these experiments are saved with the query itself as the filename under the subdirectory under `analysis`. The legends in the plots, Any 2, has two lanes that accept any vehicle, while Any 3 has three lanes that accept any vehicle one with three lanes. CCT \etc are fixed lane assignments (\eg two car lanes and one truck lane).
